---
layout: post
title: libSQL support, MySQL+PostgreSQL native backup
categories: development
date: 2025-03-18 15:00:00
---

We are happy to announce new version 6.3.0 with important improvements - support for libSQL database and native backup/restore toolkit for MySQL and PostgreSQL.

<!--more--> 

## libSQL (Premium)

libSQL is fork for SQLite, suitable for client-server scenarious. It could be used also as database stored on cloud - [Turso](https://turso.tech/). Because libSQL is primarily cloud database, it is exclusive feature for DbGate Premium edition.

## Native backup/restore (Premium)

Older DbGate versions had built-in support for MySQL backup. However, this NPM package was not maintained, and also it failed some more complicated tests, so we decided do drop this feature.

Also we removed built-in ability to import SQL dumps into SQL databases. Now we allow this for MySQL and PostgreSQL, interfaceing native tools.

Instead of it, DbGate now offers GUI interface for native backup tools, currently we are supporting MySQL and PostgreSQL. This solution is more robust and performant, as it uses standard tools shipped with database.

For DbGate Premium desktop app, it is neccessary to download native client on your own (if you don't have them already installed on your system).

For Team Premium Docker or Cloud app, native clients are already bundled, so no special action is required.

## Import/export improvements

The new version brings also important improvements for Community edition. We have improved import/export process. There are new progress indicators, when importing/exporting more files, web improved error handling and there are also lot of bugfixes related to this.

## Full changelog after 6.2.0 version

### 6.3.0
- ADDED: Support for libSQL and Turso (Premium)
- ADDED: Native backup and restore database for MySQL and PostgreSQL (Premium)
- REMOVED: DbGate internal dump export for MySQL (replaced with call of mysqldump)
- REMOVED: Import SQL dump with internal DbGate capabilities (replaced by calling of mysql and psql utilities)
- FIXED: Many fixes in stream processing (import/export), especialy for MongoDB
- ADDED: Indicating progress of import/export tasks, better error reporting
- CHANGED: #1060 - Changed shortcut for AI assistant
- ADDED: /health endpoint with diagnostic info
- FIXED: Linux Appimage crash => A JavaScript error occurred in the main process #1065 , #1067

### 6.2.1
- ADDED: Commit/rollback and autocommit in scripts #1039
- FIXED: Doesn't import all the records from MongoDB #1044
- ADDED: Show server name alongside database name in title of the tab group #1041
- ADDED: Can't open Sqlite through web #956
- FIXED: Crashed after text input at columns search #1049
- FIXED: Incorrect autojoin for foreign keys with more columns #1051
- FIXED: Scroll in XML cell view, XML view respect themes
- REMOVED: armv7l build for Linux (because of problems with glibc compatibility)
- CHANGED: Upgraded to node:22 for docker builds
- CHANGED: Upgraded SQLite engine version (better-sqlite3@11.8.1)